 Not for redistribution.

Peer Performance & Valuation

Jennifer Bartashus
Team: Consumer Staples
BI Senior Industry Analyst

Jibril Lawal
Team: Consumer Staples
BI Associate Analyst

Food-Retailer Shares Struggle Amid High Inﬂation, Shrink

(Bloomberg Intelligence) -- The BI North America food-retailer group's stock performance trailed

the broader market in January, which might extend as elevated grocery prices and concern about a
recession take a toll on consumers. Proﬁtability is being tested by wide-ranging inﬂation and

inventory shrink driven by theft. (02/06/24)

1. Boosting Sales, Preserving Margins Are Key

North American food retailers' performance relative to the S&P 500 this year may rely on their

ability to increase sales amid widespread inﬂation and pass costs on to consumers to avoid

substantial margin deterioration. The group declined 3% in the month of January, while the S&P
500 advanced 2.2%. Input-cost inﬂation is slowly moderating but remains above historical levels.

That, along with labor challenges and promotions to preserve market share are potential obstacles
for 2024 margins. Challenging market dynamics is also a concern with consumers prioritizing need-

based essentials over discretionary items. Retailers are responding by shifting their product mix to

lower-margin consumables. (02/06/24)

BI North America Food Retailers vs. S&P 500

Source: Bloomberg Intelligence

2. Grocery Retailers Pressured as Consumers Weaken

Food retailers were likely aﬀected by an uncertain economy suppressing consumer spending.
Persistently high prices caused shoppers to prioritize essentials, leading to less traﬃc and smaller

basket sizes at grocery stores. Sentiment might have been aﬀected by expectations that retailers

would have diﬃculty maintaining near-term revenue and margin growth, as inﬂation persists and
consumers seek aﬀordable options. Grocery retailers that exceeded analyst expectations were

rewarded.

High wages and supply-chain disruptions remain margin threats. Kroger said in November it was

starting to see signs of slowing inﬂation, mainly in fresh food. The company expects the pace to

keep tapering through 2024. (02/06/24)

This report may not be modiﬁed or altered in any way. The BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL service and BLOOMBERG Data are owned and
distributed locally by Bloomberg Finance LP ("BFLP") and its subsidiaries in all jurisdictions other than Argentina, Bermuda, China, India,

Japan and Korea (the ("BFLP Countries"). BFLP is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bloomberg LP ("BLP"). BLP provides BFLP with all the global
marketing and operational support and service for the Services and distributes the Services either directly or through a non-BFLP subsidiary

in the BLP Countries. BFLP, BLP and their aﬃliates do not provide investment advice, and nothing herein shall constitute an oﬀer of
ﬁnancial instruments by BFLP, BLP or their aﬃliates.

Bloomberg® 02/25/2024 08:40:16

 Not for redistribution.

North America Food-Retail Performance Year to Date

Source: MRR <GO>, Bloomberg Intelligence

3. Valuations Are Muted Against Broader Market

How the BI North America food-retail peer group's ratio of price-to-forward earnings fares against
the S&P 500 could be determined by the level of sustained demand and margin expansion.

Proﬁtability challenges tied to elevated costs, including shrink, will likely be in focus. Peers traded

at a median 12x blended 12-month P/E as of Jan. 31, a 39% discount to the S&P 500. The peer
group's multiple is down 1.7% in January, while the benchmark increased 1.3%, suggesting

uncertainty about sectors like consumer staples with a potential recession on the horizon. (02/06/24)

Comparative P/E Ratios

Source: Bloomberg Intelligence

To contact the analyst for this research:
Jennifer Bartashus at jbartashus@bloomberg.net

This report may not be modiﬁed or altered in any way. The BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL service and BLOOMBERG Data are owned and
distributed locally by Bloomberg Finance LP ("BFLP") and its subsidiaries in all jurisdictions other than Argentina, Bermuda, China, India,

Japan and Korea (the ("BFLP Countries"). BFLP is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bloomberg LP ("BLP"). BLP provides BFLP with all the global
marketing and operational support and service for the Services and distributes the Services either directly or through a non-BFLP subsidiary

in the BLP Countries. BFLP, BLP and their aﬃliates do not provide investment advice, and nothing herein shall constitute an oﬀer of
ﬁnancial instruments by BFLP, BLP or their aﬃliates.

Bloomberg® 02/25/2024 08:40:16

